# Fit model and generate predictions from new data

Generate predictions on test data using cluster stability-selected
model.

## Usage

``` r
getCssPreds(
  css_results,
  testX,
  weighting = "weighted_avg",
  cutoff = 0,
  min_num_clusts = 1,
  max_num_clusts = NA,
  trainX = NA,
  trainY = NA
)
```

## Arguments

- css_results:

  An object of class "cssr" (the output of the function css).

- testX:

  A numeric matrix (preferably) or a data.frame (which will be coerced
  internally to a matrix by the function model.matrix) containing the
  data that will be used to generate predictions. Must contain the same
  features (in the same number of columns) as the matrix provided to
  css, and if the columns of testX are labeled, the names must match the
  variable names provided to css.

- weighting:

  Character; determines how to calculate the weights to combine features
  from the selected clusters into weighted averages, called cluster
  representatives. Must be one of "sparse", "weighted_avg", or
  "simple_avg'. For "sparse", all the weight is put on the most
  frequently selected individual cluster member (or divided equally
  among all the clusters that are tied for the top selection proportion
  if there is a tie). For "weighted_avg", the weight used for each
  cluster member is calculated in proportion to the individual selection
  proportions of each feature. For "simple_avg", each cluster member
  gets equal weight regardless of the individual feature selection
  proportions (that is, the cluster representative is just a simple
  average of all the cluster members). See Faletto and Bien (2022) for
  details. Default is "weighted_avg".

- cutoff:

  Numeric; getCssPreds will make use only of those clusters with
  selection proportions equal to at least cutoff. Must be between 0
  and 1. Default is 0 (in which case either all clusters are used, or
  max_num_clusts are used, if max_num_clusts is specified).

- min_num_clusts:

  Integer or numeric; the minimum number of clusters to use regardless
  of cutoff. (That is, if the chosen cutoff returns fewer than
  min_num_clusts clusters, the cutoff will be increased until at least
  min_num_clusts clusters are selected.) Default is 1.

- max_num_clusts:

  Integer or numeric; the maximum number of clusters to use regardless
  of cutoff. (That is, if the chosen cutoff returns more than
  max_num_clusts clusters, the cutoff will be decreased until at most
  max_num_clusts clusters are selected.) Default is NA (in which case
  max_num_clusts is ignored).

- trainX:

  A numeric matrix (preferably) or a data.frame (which will be coerced
  internally to a matrix by the function model.matrix) containing the
  data that will be used to estimate the linear model from the selected
  clusters. trainX is only necessary to provide if no train_inds were
  designated in the css function call to set aside observations for
  model estimation (though even if train_inds was provided, trainX and
  trianY will be used for model estimation if they are both provided to
  getCssPreds). Must contain the same features (in the same number of
  columns) as the matrix provided to css, and if the columns of trainX
  are labeled, the names must match the variable names provided to css.
  Default is NA (in which case getCssPreds uses the observations from
  the train_inds that were provided to css to estimate a linear model).

- trainY:

  The response corresponding to trainX. Must be a real-valued response
  (unlike in the general css setup) because predictions will be
  generated by an ordinary least squares model. Must have the same
  length as the number of rows of trainX. Like trainX, only needs to be
  provided if no observations were set aside for model estimation by the
  parameter train_inds in the css function call. Default is NA (in which
  case getCssPreds uses the observations from the train_inds that were
  provided to css).

## Value

A vector of predictions corresponding to the observations from testX.

## References

Faletto, G., & Bien, J. (2022). Cluster Stability Selection. *arXiv
preprint arXiv:2201.00494*. <https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.00494>.

## Author

Gregory Faletto, Jacob Bien

## Examples

``` r
set.seed(1)
data <- genClusteredData(n = 60, p = 11, k_unclustered = 2,
  cluster_size = 4, n_clusters = 1, snr = 3)
clusters <- list(cluster1 = 1:4)
# Split into selection / training / test rows.
res <- css(X = data$X[1:20, ], y = data$y[1:20], lambda = 0.01,
  clusters = clusters, B = 10)
preds <- getCssPreds(res, testX = data$X[51:60, ],
  trainX = data$X[21:50, ], trainY = data$y[21:50])
preds
#>  [1]  1.21749163 -1.32415344  2.73059865 -3.30207757  1.68796589  1.42793277
#>  [7] -0.26374683 -0.09998047  1.21368042  0.59496609
```
